---
layout: post
title: WhatsPwn 2.0 Tutorial
categories: posts
published: true
excerpt: Linux Tool to extract sensitive data and inject payloads into any Android devices.
---

There is a new version of the linux tool _WhatsPwn_ which features new payload options like meterpreter injection or the ability to create hidden or visible payloads and inject them into any android device.
It is still in beta stage so there may be some bugs and some features may not work properly but updates are constantly rolling, so expect updates very soon.

You can find the complete changelog [here](https://github.com/jlrodriguezf/WhatsPwn#changelog).

This is  brief tutorial on how to use this tool, which just makes the process of extracting sensitive data like WhatsApp databases and fotos, and injecting backdoor payloads a lot easier.

### INSTALLATION
The first thing you need to do is clone the [repository](https://github.com/jlrodriguezf/WhatsPwn "WhatsPwn Repository")

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jlrodriguezf/WhatsPwn.git
```

Once you have done that we can proceed.

### CONFIGURATION
There are two files that you might want to edit first, the _config_ file and the _server_ file.

##### MAIN CONFIGURATION

The __config__ file is where you put all the main variables corresponding to your system.
This is how the file looks like:

```bash
##############################################################################
#                              PAYLOAD OPTIONS                               #
##############################################################################
PAYLOAD=""
PAYLOAD_NAME=""
PAYLOAD_PORT=""
PAYLOAD_IP=""
LEGITIMATE_APK=""
##############################################################################
#                                MAIN OPTIONS                                #
##############################################################################
PATHEXT="~/"
BACKUPZIPNAME="filesystem_linux"
USER="--user 0"
AUTOMODE=1
```
Here is the list of all the configuration variables:

* __PAYLOAD__: It specifies the payload to use. If you already have your own you can put it in here with the full path and ending with _.apk_.
* __PAYLOAD\_NAME__: This is the name of the output payload name **_without_.apk**. When you want to generate multiples payloads you might want to set the default payload name so that the process became more efficient as the program would not ask you for the name every time you want to generate one.
* __PAYLOAD\_PORT__: The port to use for payload reverse connections. You may want to specefiy the default for the same reason as the above.
* __PAYLOAD\_IP__: This is the IP the payload will connect back to. This is your external or internal ip or even your dynamic DNS address.
* __LEGITIMATE\_IP__: This is the path of the legitimate app the programm will inject meterpreter to with full path. This is just for injection.
* __PATHEXT__: This is the the path where all the extracted data is going to be. By _default_ this is the root directory.
* __BACKUPZIPNAME__: This is the name of the _.zip_ file containing all the extracted data. By _default_ this is _filesystem\_linux_.
* __USER__: This is how the payload's service will launch. You don't have to worry about this as this is just for compatibility for some android devices.
* __AUTOMODE__: This boolean tells the program to ask for every variable that is missing in the _FULL ATTACK_ at the beginning so once it has started you don't have to worry about typing names or paths.

##### SERVER CONFIGURATION

If you have set up a server where you want to be all your extracted files you can place your configuration in the _server_ file.
This is how the server file looks like:

```bash
SERV=""
USRSERV=""
OUTPUTDIRSERV="~/extracted/"
```
This is very easy you just need to change the variables to suit your server configuration.

* __SERV__: This is the ip to connect, this can be external or dynamic DNS name.
* __USRSERV__: This is the username of the server, i.e, _root_.
* __OUTPUTDIRSERV__: The path to put the extracted de data.

Just to clarify things, the program will try to connect to `USRSERV@SERV/OUTPUTDIRSERV`.

### HOW TO USE IT

As this is a CLI Framework there are no arguments to parse, that means that you can just run it by;

```bash
./whatspwn
```

Or from any directory. For example, if you cloned the repository to _~/Downloads/_, you can run it as;

```bash
~/Downloads/WhatsPwn/whatspwn
```

This will take you to the license agreement prompt where you have some options, you can type _y_ to agree and continue.

Next, it will take you to the main interface where all the fun begins.

This is how it looks:

##### ATTACKS

When entering attacks menu you will need to connect your device via USB cable, so you will have to enable ADB Debugging on your Android device, to do so you can follow this steps;

1. Go to Settings > About > Software
2. Tap 7 times on _Build Number_ to enable _Developer Options_
3. Go back to Settings
4. Tap on Developer Settings
5. Turn on USB Debugging

After ADB Debugging has been enabled and you have connected your device you will be taken to the _attacks_ main menu. Here you can choose;

* __Full Attack__:
1. Get the device main info like model, verison, manufacturer, etc.
2. Install backdoor payload you have specified in the _config_ file.
3. Extract the WhatsApp Database, decrypt it and save it. To do this, WhatsApp on the device will suffer a temporary downgrade, but don't worry, the programm will restore the version that was installed and keep all the data. Only in case of error or uncompatibility you will have to _Emergency restore WhatsApp_.
4. Extract sensitive data
	* WhatsApp images, sounds, etc.
	* DCIM images.
	* Telegram images.
* __Shell__: Launch a shell to the device.
* __Emergency restore WhatsApp__: This is only in case of error or incompatibility. This will restore downgraded whatsapp to the last version, but sadly it won't restore conversations or user data.
* __Only extract sensitive data__: This will skip the payload installation, WhatsApp Database extraction and decryption. It will only extract photos and sensitive info.
* __Install or relaunch payload__: This will install the payload specified in the config file or created in the payloads menu, and start the service.

###### Note: If the connection was successfull it will do all the processes wirelessly, otherwise, you will have to keep the phone connected.

##### PAYLOADS

Typing _2_ in the main menu will take you to the _payloads_ main interface. Here you can choose;

* __Injection__: This will inject a meterpreter code into a legitimate app.
* __Create hidden payload__: This option will create a _hidden_ meterpreter payload, in other words, this will not show up in the applications drawer on your device.
* __Create visible payload__: This is the opposite of the above.

##### UPLOAD

This option will try to upload all extracted files to the server specified in the _server_ file.